[Music]
if you keep this plant in your home
you'll never see mice spiders and other
pests again how many battles have you
lost against mice spiders and other icky
little home intruders all that time
money and energy spent on bug sprays
mousetraps and exterminators all to no
avail
you keep spraying but they still keep
coming back but have you ever wondered
if these sprays kill pests what can they
do to humans according to the Canadian
Center of Occupational Health and Safety
the chemicals in pest repellents may
cause headache diarrhea mental confusion
weakness loss of reflexes
unconsciousness and even death so how
about we go au naturale and try out some
pest repellents that you can find right
in your kitchen cabinet or garden number
one peppermint oil while we love the
fresh and clean smell of peppermint oil
mice and ants can't stand it if
irritates their nose and masks their
so-called trail pheromones that they use
to make their way to different resources
for example if they're in the mood for a
midnight snack they can just retrace
their steps back to a food source
pretty cool huh not for homeowners
though add some peppermint oil to your
cleaning solution and mop your floor
with it to wipe away their little trails
number two basil people have been using
plants and herbs to keep pests at bay
probably since the dawn of time our
ancient ancestors were the first to boil
stew burn and crush leaves to make
natural bud repellents a prime example
is basil studies published in 2009 in
the Tanzania Journal of Health Research
and the Journal of cellular biology
found that lemon basil and cinnamon
basil could effectively repel the
Anopheles gambiae a complex a group of
mosquito species known to carry malaria
number three lavender it's soothing
fragrance relieves us from stress and
calms our nerves it does quite the
opposite for mosquitoes house flies
fleas and moths though lavender scent
can protect your home pets and other
plants from being infested by bugs you
can also put lavender oil on your wrists
and neck to shield yourself from
mosquitoes plus it's like an instant
perfume number four catnip plant some
catnip in your backyard and your furry
feline companion will greatly appreciate
it as for ants mice and mosquitos yeah
not so much according to research
nepetalactone the essential oil and
catnip that your kitty loves so much
acts as an irritant against these common
household pests number five rosemary
this needle-like herb is commonly used
in cooking and has medicinal properties
it also attracts butterflies but deters
flies and mosquitoes make a non toxic
bug spray out of it by boiling some
dried rosemary leaves in water then mix
in some cool water and put it in a
container store the rosemary water in
the fridge and later poured into some
spray bottles easy peasy
number six eucalyptus essential oil
koalas can't live without this plant
spiders however will stay far away from
it at all costs apply a few drops of
eucalyptus essential oil to some cotton
balls and put them in areas where you
often find these eight-legged creepy
crawlies pour it in a spray bottle to
drench heart to reach areas like
ceilings and behind large pieces of
furniture number seven baking soda
ah the famous sodium bicarbonate it's
used in beauty and personal care cooking
cleaning and deodorizing your house just
to name a few you can go ahead and add
insect repellent to the mile-long list
of ways to use baking soda mix baking
soda with sugar the sweet stuff will act
as a bait for roaches and place a bowl
of water near it this lethal trio
creates a chemical reaction inside the
roaches stomach which let's just say
won't end well for the little buggers
number 8 marigold this ornamental plant
in the DeeZee family looks so innocent
at first glance yet this beautiful
bright colored flower can repel all
kinds of pests like mosquitoes and flies
marigold contains pure thrum a compound
that's commonly found in commercial bug
sprays pretty but lethal
yikes number 9 dryer sheets the favorite
hangout spots for mice or the kitchen
attic inside the walls under the
floorboards and any other dark secluded
areas Hey they have standards to you
know put original scented dryer sheets
in these places to keep mice out just
remember that this technique is only a
preventative measure and probably
shouldn't be used if mice have already
set up camp inside your home you don't
want them scurrying out in the open
because they have no place to go do you
number 10 peanut butter mice and rats
love to help themselves to our kitchen
cabinets food pantries and anywhere else
they can stuff their bellies full at our
expense and how do they show
appreciation for the free meal well
according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention rodents can
infect people with salmonella rat bite
fever and lymphocytic Koryo meningitis
protect yourself and your family by
setting traps with no nut cheese peanut
butter mice can't resist this delicious
yet deadly treat
number eleven aluminum foil
mice are highly sensitive to sounds
especially metallic ones Mouse proof
your house by placing sheets of aluminum
foil in their hideouts they'll avoid
those spots in the future number 12
ultrasonic repellent mice aren't just
known to carry diseases another reason
why they're called pests is that they
wreak havoc on your house they chew the
beams inside the walls and tear holes in
the drywall oh and let's not forget
about all those bacteria filled
droppings they sprinkle throughout your
home just lovely if at this point you've
tried just about everything from traps
to getting a cat and nothing seems to
work
or you're allergic to cats or whatever
the case might be you can always try
ultrasonic repellents if you're willing
to spend the money these things emit
high-frequency sounds that are only
sensitive to a mouse's ears however
skeptics claims that this sophisticated
device doesn't work and lack scientific
backing so use this type of repellent at
your own risk number thirteen borax this
white crystalline compound is used as a
cleansing agent and in glass making it
can also kill ants roaches termites
spiders and even mold to make sure your
target will approach it use honey or
sugar as bait as a safety precaution
make sure your borax concoction is far
out of reach of children also wear a
face mask and gloves when using it
number fourteen steel wool or copper
mesh they say prevention is the best
cure so seal any possible entryways even
the tiniest little cracks so that mice
can't even get into your home to do this
use steel wool or copper mesh to mouse
proof your house and seal the deal with
caulking these are some of the few
materials that mice can't actually eat
through so they're great at keeping
rodents out
number 15 cayenne pepper
yet another tasty ingredient used in
cooking that can also keep pests away
from your personal space if you need to
keep wild animals out of your garden
cayenne pepper is a perfectly safe way
to keep them at bay just sprinkle it on
the top soil to keep rabbits and
squirrels from munching on your fresh
veggies you can also sprinkle cayenne
pepper around your home especially near
entry points like doors and windows to
keep ants roaches and other creepy
crawlies from invading your home number
16 neem according to a study conducted
by the malaria Research Center in India
neem can be used as personal protection
against different types of mosquitoes
according to the research 2 percent neem
oil mixed with coconut oil provides 96
to a hundred percent protection from a
no felines a certain type of mosquito 85
percent protection from the 80 species
61 to 94 percent protection against
Culex pipiens mosquitoes and 37.5% from
the army Gerry sees there are different
ways to use it
burning neem leaves gives about 76%
protection for up to two hours you can
also heat the leaves up for 25%
protection as for topical application
applying 2% neem oil provides 57 percent
protection for up to four hours number
17 lemon thyme
another plant that's proven to fend off
mosquitoes is lemon-thyme this type of
herb can thrive in dry or rocky soils so
basically it can grow anywhere even in
harsh environments you have to sort of
smash the herb first to release its
scent but don't apply directly to your
skin right away do a test patch first on
a small area of skin just to check that
you won't have any adverse reaction have
you tried any of these natural
repellents before did it work
do you know any